add more breadcrumbs for how to use remote packages. documentation change only. (#9386)
haskell/cabal: doc/cabal-project.rst

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 

Reviewer: To be uniform with the other paragraph and to cut some fluff, how about:

> Since version 2.4, the source-repository-package stanza allows to specify…

Starting with Cabal 2.4, there is now a stanza
``source-repository-package`` for specifying packages stored in a remote
version control system that cabal should consider during package retrieval.

> This allows use of a package in a remote version control system, rather

Reviewer: the second sentence overlaps with the first one a lot now. Maybe, the second one should just say:

> This simplifies usage of packages not present on Hackage.

?

Author: this feels wrong. my usecase is pointing to a modified version of something that is in hackage, but broken with ghc 9.4+.

Reviewer: Well, it could say more: not present on Hackage or present but buggy, and the VCS version can contain a fix. But I don't feel too strong about it.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Starting with Cabal 2.4, there is now a stanza

> ``source-repository-package`` for specifying remote packages that cabal will vendor from an external version control system.

Reviewer: Is it possible to avoid the word "vendor"? I have met several people who were confused by it.

Author: would 'use' , or 'consider during remote package retrieval' work better?

Reviewer: Use sounds fine. The longer option would have “during solving” rather than “during retrieval”, I think, but I’m not sure it’s necessary to specify the point in time…

> ``source-repository-package`` for specifying remote packages that cabal will vendor from an external version control system.

Author: ```suggestion
``source-repository-package`` for specifying remote packages from a version control system that cabal should consider during package retrieval.
```

> ``source-repository-package`` for specifying remote packages from a version control system that cabal should consider during package retrieval.

Reviewer: Improvement!

I'm not a fan of "remote package" because it's ambiguous: it may mean non-local, or package stored somewhere, or something else. In particular, changing the old `for specifying packages from ...` to `for specifying remote packages from...` is a regression.

I'd say:
```
for specifying packages stored in a remote version control system that cabal should consider during package retrieval.
```

> ``source-repository-package`` for specifying remote packages from a version control system that cabal should consider during package retrieval.

Author: ```suggestion
``source-repository-package`` for specifying packages stored in a remote version control system that cabal should consider during package retrieval.
```

> This allows sharing of packages across different projects.

Reviewer: Although it's not added by you, I'd like this to be clarified because I don't understand this comment. Sharing also works without the stanza with normal Hackage packages: if two different projects depend on the same package that gets resolved to the same version, they will use the single instance of the package residing in the store.

Author: This line doesn't make much sense to me either. I'm using this, so i can (temporarilly!) use a modified version of upstream packages, while i wait on them to accept PRs. I'm good with dropping this line, or substituting "this allows use of a remote package in version control, rather than looking for a package in Hackage."

Reviewer: Yes, that sounds good.

Author: ```suggestion
This allows use of a remote package in version control, rather than looking for a package in Hackage.
```

> This allows use of a remote package in version control, rather than looking for a package in Hackage.

Reviewer: Again "remote package" is a bit problematic. "package in a remote versioning system" sounds less problematic.

Reviewer 2: Indeed, I have some local packages stored in local version control. They're not _currently_ slated for use by cabal, but I could see it happening.

> This allows use of a remote package in version control, rather than looking for a package in Hackage.

Author: ```suggestion
This allows use of a package in a remote version control system, rather than looking for a package in Hackage.
```

        tag: e76fdc753e660dfa615af6c8b6a2ad9ddf6afe70
        post-checkout-command: autoreconf -i

> cabal-install 3.4 sdists the ``source-repository-package`` repositories provided and uses the resulting tarballs as project packages.

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of

> cabal-install 3.4 sdists the ``source-repository-package`` repositories...

for several reasons.

First, is it only 3.4 or some other versions? I'd say:

> Since version 3.4, cabal-install sdists the ``source-repository-package`` repositories...

TBH it could do without a version altogether, perhaps. But needs checking that this version information is actually reflected somewhere. So, I'm threading safe here and leaving the version information in.

Second, I don't like derivation of words from commands: this makes text harder to read imo. How about:

> Since version 3.4, cabal-install creates tarballs for every package coming from a ``source-repository-package`` stanza (effectively applying ``cabal sdists`` to such packages).

Author: ```suggestion
Since version 3.4, cabal-install creates tarballs for each package coming from a source-repository-package stanza (effectively applying cabal sdists to such packages).
```

> It gathers the names of the packages from the appropriate .cabal file in the version control repository, and allows their use just like hackage or locally defined packages.

Reviewer: Hackage should be capitalized.

> It gathers the names of the packages from the appropriate .cabal file in the version control repository, and allows their use just like hackage or locally defined packages.

Author: ```suggestion
It gathers the names of the packages from the appropriate .cabal file in the version control repository, and allows their use just like Hackage or locally defined packages.
```

        tag: e76fdc753e660dfa615af6c8b6a2ad9ddf6afe70
        post-checkout-command: autoreconf -i

Since version 3.4, cabal-install creates tarballs for each package coming

> from a source-repository-package stanza (effectively applying cabal

Reviewer: The name of the stanza should be in double ticks. Same with cabal sdist. Same applies above.

> from a source-repository-package stanza (effectively applying cabal

Author: ```suggestion
from a ``source-repository-package`` stanza (effectively applying cabal
```

.. cfg-field:: subdir: subdirectory list

>     look in one or more subdirectories of the repository for cabal files, rather than the root.

Reviewer: To be uniform, this should start with a capital letter.

>     look in one or more subdirectories of the repository for cabal files, rather than the root.

Author: ```suggestion
    Look in one or more subdirectories of the repository for cabal files, rather than the root.
```
